# Guide to `ros_gz_project_template` for ROS 2 and Gazebo Development

In this guide, you will learn how to use the `ros_gz_project_template` to create a (recommended) structured workspace or improve your existing workspace for your ROS 2 and Gazebo projects. This template offers a consistent layout, automated build process, and integration with both ROS 2 and Gazebo, enabling you to focus on developing your robotics applications.

## Installation Steps

1. If you are starting a project, create new workspace or go to your existing project's source directory:

```bash
    mkdir -p ~/project_ws/src
    cd ~/project_ws/src
```

1. Directly `Use this template` and create your project repository on Github.
   Or start by cloning the `ros_gz_project_template` repository:

   ```bash
    wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gazebosim/ros_gz_project_template/main/template_workspace.yaml
    vcs import < template_workspace.yaml
   ```

1. Rename the cloned repository folder to your desired project name:

   ```bash
   mv ros_gz_project_template your_project_name
   ```

   Change your working directory to the project workspace:

   ```bash
   cd ~/project_ws
   ```

## Package structure

At this point you'll have the following packages in your project workspace:

* `ros_gz_example_description` - holds the sdf description of the simulated system and any other simulation assets. Simulation assets means your models or robot descriptions in URDF or SDF, meshes and materials files to help visualize different parts of the robot and finally compiling all these elements in a simulated world sdf. Existing assets can be used by installing the models directory and exporting the paths to your environment. Setting up paths can be also automated using ament hooks. Here first we append the share path to gazebo resource path and then ament_prepend_unique_value pushes the resource path in the front for gazebo resources to be quickly found.

* `ros_gz_example_gazebo` - holds gazebo specific code and configurations.  Namely this is where systems end up.

* `ros_gz_example_application` - holds ros2 specific code and configurations

* `ros_gz_example_bringup` - holds launch files and high level utilities, communication bridge between ros and gazebo


## Build and develop

1. Configure Your Project:

   Open the `CMakeLists.txt` file and modify the project name and version:

   ```bash
   project(your_project_name VERSION 0.1.0)
   ```

1. Set the Gazebo version to Garden:

    ```bash
    export GZ_VERSION=garden
    ```

1. Install ROS dependencies

    ```bash
    source /opt/ros/<ROS_DISTRO>/setup.bash
    sudo rosdep init
    rosdep update
    rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src -r -y -i
    ```

1. Modify and Test:

   Explore the `src/your_project_name` directory to add/modify the ROS 2 packages associated with your project.

1. Build and install

    ```bash
    cd ~/project_ws
    colcon build --cmake-args -DBUILD_TESTING=ON
    ```

## Usage

1. Source the workspace

    `. ~/project_ws/install/setup.sh`

1. Launch the simulation and visualize in RViz:
    
    To visualize your robot model and the data generated by your ROS 2 nodes, open a new terminal and launch:

   ```bash
   ros2 launch ros_gz_example_bringup diff_drive.launch.py
   ```


## ROSCon 2022
Check out a ROSCon 2022 talk titled [ROS 2 and Gazebo Integration Best Practices](https://vimeo.com/showcase/9954564/video/767127300), to learn more about best practices of integrating simulation with ROS 2, drawn from accumulated experience and successful deployments. The talk will additionally cover tips and techniques to ease migration to the latest versions.
